You're a very good developer,
probably regardless you write bugs
and that's unavoidable. What is
avoidable is wasting time trying
to track down the cause
of those bugs century.io provides
full stack error tracking it
lets you monitor and fix
problems in real time. See
the severity and scope of
the error. Get immediate access
to the stack, trace connect
the problem to the commit
that caused it and fix
it without delay century a
name that's so common. We
have to include our top
level domain in our advertising
to make sure you remember
them. century.io that's century S
E N T R y.io.
Open source full stack web
apps, native apps, mobile games,
smart oven mitts. If you
can program it, sensory can
make it far easier to
fix any errors you encounter
with it. Let's fix broken
coat together. Visit century.io. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, Hansel
minutes. And today I'm talking
with Camille 48. She is
head of platform engineering at
two Sigma and the author
of a great new book
called the manager's path. A
guide for tech leaders, navigating
growth and change. It's actually
a number one bestseller in
engineering, project management. How are
you? I'm good. Thanks. How
are you? I'm pretty good.
I'm happy to be talking
to you. You just keep
crushing it everywhere. I'm follow
you on Twitter and I've
been enjoying your book. It's
doing very well. It's been
out for about a year
or so. Yeah, a little
extra coming up on two
years and in March, April
timeframe. And how has the
response been? I've heard nothing
but nice things and I've
been enjoying it in the
four chapters that I made.
Yeah. The response has been
really positive. I'm I'm actually,
I sort of wrote it,
hoping that a few people
would like it and I've
been kind of overwhelmed by
the positive response on I'm
very grateful that I was
able to write something that
so many people find useful.
Have you found in the
writing of it that it,
that things like this, are
they sell because of marketing
or they sell it because
of word of mouth? I
think in most of the
cells because of word of
mouth, because there's not really
any marketing. I mean, it's
an O'Reilly publication or Riley
does a little bit, like
they bring your books to
conferences and things like that.
But you know, the only
marketing that that really happened
was for a while, there
are people were taking pictures
of my book that they
brought on vacation, which was
kind of fun and they
would tweet them at me.
And so I would retweet
that. That was like kind
of a weird, like viral
marketing. Well, it's like my
book on like gorgeous beaches.
Like someone took it to
Fiji and I'm just like,
really you want to read
about engineering management and Fiji.
Okay. That's actually kind of
awesome. It shows a commitment
to the craft. Yeah. Yeah.
But you know, it's mostly
been a word of mouth
book in terms of people
picking it up. Very cool.
Do you think that people
who are managers are grown
or born, First of all,
everyone has to learn, however,
natural you may be in
terms of comfortable talking to
people and you know, leading
them and you know, natural
charisma, whatever there's so much
of there's so much work.
There's, there's a lot of
details of the work of
actually being a good manager
that has really nothing to
do with your personality per
se, that has to be
learned. So in some sense,
everyone is, is grown into
a good manager. There are
probably some personality types that
will have a harder time
becoming a great manager than
others. I have worked with
people who were managers, but
were also like really, really
good engineers. And sometimes what
I see with those, especially
when they're struggling to be
managers is a desire to
just go really, really deep
into the technology. You know,
you're, they're having problems with
their team, perhaps there's, there's,
you know, collaboration, challenges going
on or projects are missing.
And instead of taking a
step back and looking at
the situation broadly, what happens
is that they say, Oh,
you know what, I'm just
going to like go super,
super deep into the technology
and I'm going to, you
know, shut the world out
and, and look at it
from that side of things.
And if that is really
your desire and instinct, and
you can kind of get
over that even after perhaps
having it pointed out to
you that this is not
the ideal thing for a
manager to be doing in
this circumstance. It may be
as a sign that like
you would just be happier
and more successful focusing on
the individual contributor work, instead
of trying to really, you
know, keep it, that kind
of higher level. I'm looking
across a bunch of people,
which is what the manager
needs to do. It's interesting
to explore the personality types,
because like you, like you
said, you could say that
a personality type is a
natural leader, but it's really
that they have characteristics underneath,
underneath that like maybe characteristics
of empathy or seeing the
big picture or whatever that
would then be part of
the formula. They're not necessarily
a natural leader, but it's
part of the formula that
would make them an effective
manager. But what is it
about technologists that somehow make
us want to like people
don't compile? So we'll just,
like you said, I'll just
hide in the code because,
well, at least I understand
that part. I mean, I
just think it's, I think
it's sort of natural, right?
People always go to what
they're good at when they're
under stress. For the most
part is just my, you
know, my, my observations true
of myself. It's true of
almost everyone. If you, if
you watch someone who is
really stressed out often their
first instinct is to go
where they feel comfortable. And
so for a lot of
engineers, especially those who are
new to management, they feel
comfortable in the code or
maybe they feel comfortable debugging
things or, you know, helping
out with operations or whatever.
And I think that that's
totally, you know, it was
totally a natural thing to
do, but unfortunately it doesn't,
it's not actually the job
anymore. Right? So your, your
job has now changed to
something new. And, and I
think that some people can
get over that and can
force themselves to be uncomfortable
in that uncomfortable learning phase
of like, I don't know
what I'm doing as a
manager and I'm doing a
bunch of stuff that I
don't feel that good at
and just continuing to work
on that and eventually getting
good at it. And some
people just continually refuse to
do that and just continue
to go back to the
code or to their, to
their comfort zone. And, you
know, as a result don't
really grow out of that.
Have you ever found yourself
in a situation where perhaps
someone that you were, that
was your direct, that you're
the manager and you have
people who work for you
and you have identified that
one or more of the
people who work for you
are probably going to be
better at being the manager
than you are. Because I
find myself sometimes in that
situation where I'm like, you
know, so and so who
works for me really should
have my job. So I
actually have someone working for
me now, although he is
going to go be a,
a VP at a startup
soon, and I'm very happy
for him who was probably
the best manager I've ever
worked with. And, you know,
I'm, I was thrilled to
be able to work with
him. And I was his
manager. He definitely, you know,
I think in a lot
of ways was better at
some things that I was,
and, you know, so that
was actually a joy really,
honestly, it's, it's really fun
working with someone who's just
like really, really good at
something that you also care
a lot about and are
really interested in. And I
enjoyed that. So from that,
so I have had that
experience and I'm very happy
for him that he's going
to do something new and
exciting, and I'm very excited
to be able to keep
in touch with him and,
you know, continue to like
both share stuff that I
know and, and resources that
I can give to him
and also learn from him
and learn from what he's
experiencing. You know, I think,
especially at the level that
I'm at now, you know,
every manager and leader is
a little bit different and
has, has, you know, you
can, you can fit into
a particular niche that other
people wouldn't necessarily fit into
that. Well, even though they're
stronger than you at other
areas. Right. So, you know,
so I think he was
a stronger manager than I
am. And I think perhaps
someday I would work for
him. On the other hand,
you know, there were, there
are things that I have
done that he's never had
the chance to do yet.
Right. Like I've been a
CTO and I am very
comfortable with the management work
of, of leading, leading an
organization and thinking about a
lot of the HR processes
of sitting at a table
with a lot of other
executives and, and really presenting
well, you know, with them
kind of, you know, how
do you talk to those
people? What does that executive
presence like that, you know,
it's just not things that
he had necessarily had a
lot of opportunities to do
yet. So, so I, I
guess that's, that's, that's a
long winded answer, right? And
you could definitely have people
who work for you, who
you think ultimately are better
than you at some of
the aspects of the job
and they just need to
learn it. And I think
as a manager, part of
your job is actually to
like give them those opportunities,
look for those opportunities for
them. And then, you know,
keep in touch with them
when they go off to
do something great. Cause you
never know who your next
boss will be. Yeah. I
appreciate that. Very, very thoughtful
answer. I know that was
kind of a tough question
because it is quite nuanced.
You know, someone's not necessarily
better than you or worse
than you. I mean, we
are the collection of our
experiences, but I am always,
you know, I've been in
tech for a very long
time, but I am always
so impressed when young people
pick up things so quickly.
And so intuitively that I
found that I found to
be hard won skills, particularly
one in like trying to
be a lead or a
tech lead there's within that
chapter three of your book,
you start talking about the
idea of being a tech
lead and I've, I've seen
an interesting article go around
the net recently that made
the, the interesting observation that
being a tech leader, being
a principal software engineer, isn't
senior, senior, like the tech
lead doesn't necessarily the smartest
person in the room. Yeah.
Yes. I absolutely believe that.
Yeah, no, I've read that
article and it's great in
technical companies, we often just
wrap a lot of things
up together that don't need
to be wrapped up together.
So I think there's a
lot, we do this thing
where we want, we want
our leaders, or we want
people in these positions to
be the best at everything.
Like, you know, they should
be the smartest person in
the room, the most technical,
the best talker, the best,
you know, just everything and
those people don't, most people
just don't have all of
those skills. And so then
we often say, okay, well,
if I have to pick
one, I'm going to go
for smartest slash most technical
because that's, you know, that's
who I know the team
will respect the, you know,
the core that they know
how to do the core
work really, really well. Cause
they're the most technical, but
you know, when the job
isn't actually about doing the
most difficult technical work, putting
the most technical person in
the job may not be
the right thing to do.
I think the tech lead
job, and I talk about
this in my book. I
think a lot of the
tech lead job is there's
a large amount of project
management in it. There's a
lot of, there's a large
amount of how am I
helping a group of people
get something done effectively. And
as an engineer and working
on engineering projects, a lot
of that work is technical
work. So you do need
to be technically savvy and
you need to understand the
technologies that you're building with
and, you know, and be
able to think about the
system. But that does not
mean you're the best programmer
that does not, you know,
that, that doesn't actually necessarily
mean that, that, you know,
like every single nitty gritty
detail of every single part
of system, it just means
that you are capable of
joining all those pieces together
and, and importantly, helping that
team or together effectively. And
I think, you know, whether
or not you're managing people
at levels of leadership, almost
everyone needs those skills to
continue to become a leader.
There are very, very few
people in the world who
can shut themselves away and
change the world just by
writing code by themselves. There
are a couple of people
like that. That's true. They're
all there. Everyone looks around
and they see these exceptions,
Linus, Torvalds, perhaps, right? But
for most of us that
just, you know, you have
to be in the exact
right place at the exact
right time. You have to
be such an exotic place.
Things every time is a
big part of it. You
maybe also need really exceptional
skills. And there's just not
that many opportunities like that.
For most of us working
at companies, what makes you
really successful is that you're
actually able to get a
lot of people to do
things, to create big things.
And what do you do
that by managing them by,
by leading them, by coaching
them and teaching them, there's
a lot of different ways.
It doesn't have to be
a management job, but the,
the role of senior technical
leadership is about other people
it's about leading or you
can't lead. If there's no
people to lead, it's not
about shutting yourself away and
writing a lot of code
and writing the most code
of anyone in the company.
That's just very rarely the
skill that's gonna be, you
know, the most impactful. So,
so I, you know, I
do think that that tech
leadership, you know, it doesn't
have to be the most
technical person on the team
taking the tech job. And
in fact, a lot of
technical people wouldn't necessarily like
to have to do that
because there's so much project
management and, and not exactly
purely technical responsibilities to making
that job successful On your
blog. You make the very
important point that ultimately if
the engineering manager is not
good at getting the team
to be productive, then that
is a problem. So, I
mean, shut up and ship
is kind of what I'm
hearing there. You really have
to ship otherwise, you're going
to fail in those areas.
Yeah. I, again, unless, you
know, maybe if you are
a researcher, you have a
little bit, you know, your
timeframe of shipping is different.
Most of us are not
researchers and even researchers about
a shift. I mean, you
know, academics, I've got to
get those papers published. If
they want to make tenure
Microsoft, where I work, they
have this term. And I'm
not sure yet if it's
a Microsoft ism or if
it's a everyone ism, but
the term M one and
M two, have you ever
heard that? I have maybe
her, some companies, these are
like management levels, right? Well,
some more like, are you
a manager of some people,
or are you a manager
of managers? And you actually
have a whole chapter in
your book about managing managers.
When I saw that, I
said, Oh, those are
managers that manage managers of,
and you know, when you
get an extra level nested
deep, it sounds pretty exhausting.
And it's a whole new
level of complexity. Yes, it
is. You know, to explain
it to engineers. I often
say you, you have this
level of abstraction, a new
level of abstraction that you,
you may or may not
be able to Pierce that
is all about what's going
on in this team. So,
you know, the, when you're
initially managing, especially if you're
a technical person and you
were maybe even a developer
on the team that you
started to manage, you have
just this kind of native
understanding of the software. You
have this native understanding of
the way things work and
that's, that can take you,
that can make the job
of management a lot easier
because you just have good
technical instincts. And you can
kind of know if people
are working on the right
things or not. Once you
go up levels of abstraction
and you are no longer
really directly talking to the
people that are working on
the code or working on
the systems that often, and
maybe even furthermore, you never
worked on those systems at
all. And you're just talking
to the manager of that
team. And you're really just
getting what that person is,
reflecting back to you. That
is a very challenging thing
to figure out. It's very
challenging to figure out how
do I continue to know
if this team is doing
well or not in that,
in that scenario? How do
I Pierce that level of
instruction? Or how much should
I even do that? Yeah.
You, in, in the book,
you have this quote, you
actually quote yourself, which I
think is great, because it
was an email that you
sent to your leadership coach,
and you're saying to them,
how do you help with
problems that you weren't in
the room to see? And
I love this with unreliable
witnesses. Sometimes I feel like
I'm constantly piecing together, you
know, stories about like, well,
what did they say? What's
the technical problem of what's
going on? And you said
that you were spending all
your time to two levels
deep in people problems, and
it's exhausting, but you have
to trust your people. Like
how do you find that
balance? You know, I, I,
I would say like, I'm
still learning new ways to
do that. It's, it's hard.
Do you do have to
trust your people? And so
everybody has like different approaches
to doing this. Some people
are really, really organized. So
you do see those managers
who like, you know, they
really love JIRA and they
will like really, they will
set very clear, like, you
know, project milestones or whatever.
And they will really follow
along with the, with the
progress of the project. And
I think I just can't
do that, honestly, like both,
like I don't, I don't
really like being managed that
way. And I don't have
the patience for that even
as like a manager of
managers. So, so, you know,
there are people who do
it that way, I think,
and that can work. There
are projects for whom that
can work. And if you
have that kind of attention
span and you can figure
out a way to do
that, that won't make your
team feel like they're just
drowning and bureaucracy. Great. Right.
And I do know people
who successfully manage that way
for me. I, I do
like a combination of things.
My, my general philosophy at
this point is that my
goal is to make sure
that I have as clear
in my mind, what is
really important for my organization
to be doing what are
the really important things for
us to be accomplishing or
stabilizing getting done and keeping
those top of my mind.
And then top of my
manager's mind, and then getting
those managers to keep those
top of their manager's mind
so that if nothing else,
like I'm just trying to
push prioritization implicitly through the
org, by helping them know
what I think is important
because people do generally want
to make their boss happy.
They do generally want to
want to be working on
important things. And so, and
I think it's a full
time job understanding what's really
important right now and what
we need to do and,
and pushing that through an
Oregon. That's, that's kind of
the way for me that
I, these days lead now
that doesn't solve, you know,
that doesn't really solve the
people problems, right? There's, there's
also a, an element of,
you have to learn how
to train managers, to be
a manager of managers. You
have to learn how to
teach people how to deal
with people problems. You have
to learn how to teach
people how to do all
the various basic management tasks
and become more and more
independent than so, as you're
onboarding new managers, especially people
who have never managed before.
A lot of the job
is teaching them how to
do their job. Well, This
episode is sponsored by stack
overflow for teams, a private
secure home for your team's
questions and answers. It's everything
that you love about stack
overflow now for your company
and get instant, reliable answers
from your coworkers without disrupting
them unlike documentation or wikis,
long email threads, or distracting
instant messages, Q and a
mimics the way that we
naturally share and find information,
introduce stack overflow for teams
to your company, and start
building products faster and better
visit s.tk/hansel minutes to get
your first month free. That's
S dot T K slash
Hansel minutes. You, you call
out an interesting juxtaposition between
the CTO, having an open
door policy. You always want,
you always get that speech
when you're joining a company.
And the CTO is in
front of everyone saying, you
know, my door's always open.
And it's like, well, which
of us is going to
be bold enough to go
and get beat up by
the boss or our process
boss. But then you also
call out the importance of
skip level meetings when someone's
talking to their bosses boss
in a formal. Yes, well,
so, so I am a
big believer in skip level
meetings. I still do them.
I still do them. I
always do them. So, so
I, my, my feeling with
the open door policy is
mostly that just people don't
really take advantage of it.
That it's a, you know,
a lot of managers, senior
managers, particular think that if
they set this up, that
people will come to them
when things are going wrong.
And therefore they're not responsible
for actively monitoring the organization
as it were. They can
have this passive monitoring because
people will just bubble up
problems to them. And therefore,
if they're not hearing anything,
everything's fine. And the truth
of the matter is there
are a few people who
will do that and hold
those people dear to your
heart, because those squeaky wheels
can be kind of annoying
sometimes, or, you know, kind
of frustrating, but they are
giving you information. That's so
hard to get otherwise, you
know, you are, you actually
need to figure out what
your active monitoring strategy is
for your organization. And skip
walls are a pretty good
way to do that. So,
you know, talking to the
people in your team who
do not report to you
and on some kind of
regular cadence and just getting,
getting thoughts from them about
what's going well and what
isn't, and letting them trying
to, first of all, like
a really important part of
skip levels is really just
making them feel comfortable with
you. So if something goes
really, really bad, hopefully sometimes
they will be willing to
come to you with it
instead of just quitting or,
you know, what have you.
So there, there is that
like breaking the ice and,
and kind of creating an
actual relationship with the members
of your team that you
may not otherwise interact with
all that often. But then
beyond that, you know, you
are trying to get some
information about what's going on.
That I might, what's, what's
a different perspective on this
team or this organization that
I may not be getting
from my manager. So that
helps you, helps you independently
verify the condition of the
team based on your own
experience with the team, instead
of just entirely relying on
the self reports that your
managers are giving you about.
What's going on. One of
the things that I particularly
appreciated about this chapter, and
I think is important for
people to understand is that
people behave differently in different
contexts. So you call out
of course, the benefit of
skips and skip level meetings
and one-on-ones, but then you
say, well, if your organization
gets really loud, okay, it
gets really large. All you
would be doing is getting
one-on-one. So then you should
consider maybe having skipped level
lunches with whole teams. And
what I appreciated about the
book was that you actually
call out low, that people
will behave differently in a
group dynamic. If you are
putting them in a group
with people that they know
or people that they work
with, or people of their,
of their shared level, there's
lots of different configurations. And
you have to recognize that
everyone is going to behave
somewhat differently and code switch
for lack of a better
word in those instances. And
you as the manager or
the CTO have to be,
be conscious of that, of
that context, that they may
not even be conscious of.
I mean, you know, my,
the organization I'm in now,
so my team is around
a hundred people. And so
I it's, it's big enough
that I can, it's not
so big that I can't
have skip levels with everyone,
but, you know, not very
often. And then we try
to do actual lunches for
all senior leadership across all
of engineering. And so we
will do these like small,
like with a lunch or,
or breakfast or whatever coffee
meetings with, let's say 10
people in the organization. And
two of the senior leaders
at my level. And, you
know, it's been, it's an
interesting experience because I think
the goal is for people
to feel like they're getting
a FaceTime with senior leadership
and they're getting perspectives on
the organization. It is a
little bit like pulling teeth
though, to get people in
those rooms to actually ask
questions and, and really engage.
It actually takes a lot
of moderation on the part
of the senior leaders in
the room to, to create
a good conversation. It's definitely
not just something that always
naturally happens. You yourself are
highly technical. And I saw
a video of you where
you wrote your own distributed
system in the early two
thousands before things started becoming
kind of commoditized. And I
wonder what you think about
devs who prefer to work
with technical leaders versus the
kind of inherent suspicion that
we have when we're given
a leader who isn't kind
of like, quote, unquote, one
of us who didn't write
code back in the day,
someone who's more of a
manager manage our career manager.
And if that's problematic, I
mean, a big part of
the thesis of my book
is that I do think
effective engineering management is a
technical discipline that does not
always mean that the best
managers are people who spent
a long time writing code.
I do no exceptions to
this fact. I have, you
know, I have, I have
met people who were involved
in technology in not direct
hands on ways who are
still effective engineering managers. I
think they're pretty rare. And
I think it very much
depends kind of on the
scope of your job and
what you're and what you're
doing. You know, there's, there's
just so much of leadership.
And so much of leadership
and management in engineering is,
is about kind of knowing
really what's important to do
and what you can let
drop. Cause there's always just
too much to do. And
you have to be able
to gut check what your
engineers are bringing to you
a little bit, like, you
know, you're never going to,
the more senior you get,
right? You're not like looking
at their code and, you
know, picking it apart. But
if you have really like
no instincts about the way
that if you have really
like no instincts about the
way that systems are built,
it can be hard, I
think, to ask the right
questions and make sure that
your team is, is really
taking you in the right
direction. So I do, you
know, so, so that's hard.
That's part of it, right?
I actually just think, you
know, as an engineering leader,
it's actually just hard to
do your job. If you
really don't speak their language
at all. I also think
that there is a level
of like engineers, don't always
respect nontechnical leaders. And so,
you know, people like to
feel like their manager can
do their job. In fact,
this is like a, a
studied thing, right? So there
was I've, I've cited this
in a bunch of talks
because of when I read
it, I was like, wow,
there's an HBR article. And
some people did some research
and they were like, they
asked a bunch of people.
What, what are the top
things that you, you, that
you care about in your
job? And they actually said
having a manager who has
some sort of excellence or
authority in the work that
I do scored higher even
than like more money for
a lot of people. So
it's, I do think that
people care about feeling like
their manager can appreciate what
they're doing and understands, you
know, understands the challenges of
their job. And they can
talk to their manager. They
can get ideas about how
to do their job better
from their manager. So now
this doesn't mean that like
every, you know, every person,
you know, into, in three,
whatever, I don't know if
you, if you term it
that way at Microsoft or
not, but this doesn't mean
that, you know, then you're
a manager of managers and
you're, you know, multiple levels
up and you need to
know and understand every single
detail of every person's work.
Right? It doesn't mean that
you should expect to be
able to do the IC
job at the, at the,
the leaf node when you've
been managing for 15 years.
But it does mean that
you should have enough technical
chops to be able to,
to give decent technical feedback
to your managers as they
are, then have a little
bit more context and a
little bit more technical depth
at the time to give
feedback to their teams. So
I do think that I
do think that for most
people having a good, strong
technical underpinning will generally make
their careers more successful as
managers, because it'll be easier
to gain that respect and
just easier to do the
job. Yeah, absolutely. I feel
that my boss is good
at BS detection. You know,
like he's not necessarily the
most technical, but he's like,
eh, my sense of smell,
my technical sense of smell
sells says that this thing
you're describing may be a
problem. He's got that experience
in your chapter, on managing
people. You have an interesting
quote from Mark Hedlund, where
he says that when people
become a new engineering manager,
like when, when, when an
engineer becomes promoted, they shouldn't
think of it as a
promotion. Like they do. We
all say, Oh, I've been
promoted. Now I'm a manager.
He says that new manager
is an entry level job
because, and you really need
to start with it in
that attitude that I am
now shifting. And maybe I
moved diagonally, but I didn't
necessarily. Yeah. And you know,
I generally speaking, I agree
with that. I think I
do think people go a
little too far when they
say that you're, it's completely
completely different job because I
think that people, yeah. Cause
I think sometimes people hear
that and then they think,
Oh, well then why do
we need technical people to
be managers? And for all
the reasons that I just
said, I actually think you
are building on skills. You've
already built those, those skills
that you already built come
in useful. But I do
agree that it is a
very, very different job. And
sometimes having a hard reset
is the thing you need
to do to get good
at it. Because, you know,
as I said earlier, right,
it's very tempting. I think
for new managers to go
back to individual contributor habits
when they're stuck with problems,
right? So they, they tend
to use what's in their
old toolbox to solve problems.
Oh, this project is shipping
late. I'm going to contribute
code, you know, Oh, this,
this person is unhappy. I'm
going to like pair program
with them, whatever. Right. And
you do want to force
yourself to say, I'm not
going to try not to
go back to my individual
contributor toolbox. I'm going to
try to, you know, learn
new things and do things
that are harder for me
or uncomfortable, you know, dig
into the details of the
project from a higher level.
Instead of just assuming that
I can do a dieting
save by adding code myself.
And, and so I do
think that that is a,
it's useful to reframe it
as like a fresh start,
because hopefully it will help
you understand both that this
is going to be hard.
It's going to be a
lot harder than it might
look from the outside. And
also that you should be
trying to do new things
instead of just doing things
that you had done in
the past that you know,
are easy for you, You,
you, you had a blog
post a while back where
you talk about the failure
to delegate can be a
problem. If you're trying, you
know, like basically when being
helpful is actually hurting, like
something that feels intuitive may
not necessarily be intuitive when
you really just want your
team to be happy and
successful, but you also personally
want to feel useful and
needed. Yes. Yes. I think,
you know, sometimes managers will
hold on to uncomf unpleasant
work themselves and they'll say,
Oh, I'm not going to
make my team deal with
this old crufty system. I
will handle on call for
that system. Or, you know,
they don't want to do
this. They don't want to
deal with the release process
or they don't want to
deal with, you know, talking
to this product manager, who's
giving them trouble. So I'm
just going to take all
of those unpleasant things and
do them myself, and what
can happen with that when
you take all of the
unpleasant things and always do
them yourself, is that your
team doesn't have the opportunity
to see where the problems
are and, and create fixes
for them. And you probably
don't have the time to
actually create sustainable fixes for,
for problems like that. Right.
But where, where automation might
actually just make that on-call
problem go away or that
release problem go away or
where you may just need
the engineers to see that
this old crafty system is,
is crufty. And perhaps we
need to think about how
we're going to replace it
with something new. They're not
going to see that because
you're just, you're, you're, you're
hiding it away from them.
I also think that people,
you know, there can be
a great tendency from some
engineering managers, particularly new ones,
but not just new ones,
but just really want to
keep engineer's happy. They just
have this idea that, you
know, the terrified of people
leaving and that their job
is just to make their
team happy all the time.
And that's just as not,
you will not be successful
if that is your, is
that as your attitude going
in, you will, in the
long run, I think you're
going to have a really
hard time being successful because
actually a lot of people,
you know, they kind of
don't respect that and they
don't realize that they don't
respect it, but they end
up more unhappy when they
feel like they're never given
any challenges when they feel
like they're never, you know,
they never have to work
for anything that they they're
just sort of allowed to
do whatever they want. And,
you know, there's this idea
that like most people would
be happy if they just
got to have full autonomy
over everything they did all
the time. I just, in
my experience, that's actually not
true for everyone. There are
a lot of people who
thrive under, you know, help
me get directions and, and
help me focus and prioritize.
And that's your job as
a manager to say no
to occasionally ask them to
do unpleasant things and to,
you know, just to generally
like help your team feel
full responsibility for work and
not just, you know, not
just kind of like a
drift and allowed to do
whatever they want. Well, that
actually brings us to inappropriate
callback. If we pop all
the way off the top
of the stack to the
beginning of the conversation where
we talk about how, you
know, as a manager or
as a manager of managers,
you're providing a layer of
abstraction, but here you're cautioning
us to not be too
abstract because if you hide
too much, then you really
just, you know, you put
a kind of a gross
layer of abstraction on top
of something gross and technical
debt will eventually catch up
with you. Yeah. And you
know, frankly, the same thing
with, with organizational, a lot
of people say, you know,
Oh, the manager should be
a, put it nicely poop
umbrella. And you know, they
should be shielding their teams
from, you know, bad things
externally. And I think there's,
there's a little bit to
this, right? Some organizations have
a lot of politics and
kind of unhealthy behaviors, especially
at the senior levels. And
you know, if you let
a lot of that leak
through, into your team, that
can be very upsetting to
them, or they really don't
need to know about, you
know, executive X, stabbing executive,
why in the back that's,
that's probably not healthy for
them. On the other hand,
I think a lot of
people do that role and
they say, Oh, well, like
I don't, you know, I
don't need to, to, I
don't need to let them
know that like, there's a
lot of uncertainty in this
particular product plan and that,
you know, we're having, we're
struggling in this part of
the business that happens to
touch on my team's work.
I actually think it's bad
to show to hide that
thing, that kind of thing
from them. Right. Because then
they don't really have the
context for what's going on.
Right. So there is, there,
there are bad things that
happen that you do need
to share with your team.
So they have the context
to understand, Oh, we are
struggling to make this product
successful. They may have great
ideas for that. If you
pretend like the product is
really successful and you know,
everything's going great when it
clearly isn't, then they can't
be part of the solution.
Right? So, so you want
to be careful with what
you hide from people, because
part of what you want
to do is get them
to, you know, give you
more, give you, give you
ideas, or bring out the
best in them. And sometimes
bringing out the best in
people requires them to understand
the truth of the situation,
even when the situation is
not great. Well, I really
appreciate you taking the time
to chat with me today.
I'm very happy to have
gotten a chance to do
it. Well. We've been chatting
with Camille . She is
the head of platform engineering
at two Sigma, and I
would really encourage everyone to
check out her book, the
manager's path. If you enjoyed
this podcast, it is a
big concentrated bunch of advice.
It's effectively so much more
in a great book. And
I am very much enjoying
reading it. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.